Understanding your availability requirements is extremely important so you
don't waste time and money overbuilding a solution or end up underbuilding
and have the system fail at a critical time.
Let's go through some options when it comes to availability and when you
might choose one over the other. Depending on the database service you're
using, some high availability configurations are automatic or as easy as
clicking a checkbox to enable the option,
while for other services, you're going to need to do a little more work.
First, let's tackle the simple case, a single instance.
This is best suited for development environments where the data
isn't critical and if the system crashes,
the person using it knows how and has access to just start
it back up. Since development can often break the
database, speaking from experience,
it's nice to provide developers with their own copy so they can move faster
without affecting other team members in a shared environment. Running single
instances reduces management overhead and cost,
so it's a good fit for noncritical scenarios.
Next, we have multi‑AZ, or, running in more than one availability zone.
This configuration is actually addressing two different problems.
The first is having a single point of failure.
When your database runs on a single instance and that one instance goes down,
you've lost your database.
Clustering multiple machines to serve a single database is a way to
mitigate having a single point of failure. Availability zones take it a
step further by not only running your database on multiple machines, but
also physically separating those machines.
Running multiple machines in different physical locations provides
a very good foundation for high availability.
So what is an availability zone? An availability zone is an
isolated set of resources within an AWS region that are separated
such that a fire or power outage in one availability zone should
not affect other availability zones.
They're also connected by high speed networks,
so running a database cluster across availability zones shouldn't
add significant latency to your application.
Most of the available managed database solutions are multi‑AZ by default,
since that configuration meets most production
requirements for high availability.
Finally,
we have multi‑region. AWS regions are geographically separated around the world,
such that a disaster affecting one region has a very small chance of
affecting another region. In the history of AWS,
there have only been a few outages that took out a service in an entire region.
For example, S3 was down in the North Virginia region for 4‑5 hours in 2017,
and EC2 was down for 1‑5 hours in the Sydney region in 2016.
While regional outage mitigation is one reason to go multi‑region,
a more common case for operating across regions is
to get data closer to your users.
The cost and complexity of a multi‑region deployment will vary
depending on the database service you use. For services like Amazon
Aurora Global Database and DynamoDB global tables, creating a
multi‑region deployment is relatively simple. For other services, it
may not be quite as readily supported, although features are constantly evolving,
so that could change over time.
A multi‑region architecture is going to cost the most and be the most complex.
So unless you have a specific requirement for multi‑region,
you can usually stick with multi‑AZ and achieve the necessary availability for your database system.